---
title: 'Markdown Presentation Tool: lookatme'
author: James Johnson - @d0c_s4vage
date: 2019-12-20
extensions:
  - qrcode
---

# Introduction: Me

* I
    * am a
        * software developer
        * security researcher
        * team leader
    * enjoy
        * open-source software development
        * teaching
        * parfaits

# Introduction: Me

I can be found on twitter and github:

```qrcode-ex
columns:
  - data: "https://twitter.com/d0c_s4vage"
    caption: "Twitter: @d0c_s4vage"
  - data: "https://github.com/d0c-s4vage"
    caption: "GitHub: d0c-s4vage"
```

# lookatme: A Markdown Presentation Tool

I wrote a cool tool: `lookatme`

`lookatme` presents Markdown in a terminal

## Installation

lookatme can be installed via pip with:

```bash
pip install lookatme
```

# Why?

* I am very familiar with Markdown
* I enjoy being close to the code and in the terminal
* Markdown is extremely simple to read and write
* It lets human-readable slides live alongside code
    * Presentations as code!

# Why: Part 2.1 - MDP

Existing tools do similar things. E.g., [mdp](https://github.com/visit1985/mdp)

```file
path: examples/mdp.md
lang: md
```

```terminal15
mdp examples/mdp.md
```

# Why: Part 2.2

[patat](https://github.com/jaspervdj/patat) is another existing tool that
presents markdown slides on the command-line:

```file
path: examples/patat.md
lang: md
```

```terminal15
patat examples/patat.md
```

# Why: Part 3

I was asked on Twitter why I didn't use a browser-based tool:

> Looks nice. Out of curiosity, any reason why you are not using remarkjs
> except it runs in a terminal vs a browser?

Although rendering Markdown can look much nicer using GUIs, I wanted to have
it close to the code and to be able to seamlessly shift between

* presenting concepts
* displaying source code/CLI commands
* interactively running commands

# Why: Part 3 - Examples

For example, suppose I was presenting on Flask and I wanted to show a minimal
flask application running.

It's easy enough to do this from other slide presentation tools, as long as
you're fine with:

* duplicating your source code in
    * the slides themselves
    * the actual code being run

and

* context switching between
    * running the program in a separate terminal
    * creating yet another terminal (or browser) to interact with the running program
    * possibly pulling up an IDE to show/modify the actual source being run

It gets complicated. I don't like complicated

# Why: Part 3 - Flask Example

```terminal7
bash -c "TERM=xterm-256color vim --clean ./source/minimal_flask.py -c 'colors peachpuff'"
```

```terminal7
bash -c "FLASK_APP=./source/minimal_flask.py flask run --reload"
```

```terminal7
python
```


# Why: Part 3

I also wanted to make it easy to create extensions that can have a first-chance
opportunity to handle specific markdown rendering events.

E.g., the QR codes at the start of this slide are generated by an external,
contrib extension to `lookatme` that [I wrote](https://github.com/d0c-s4vage/lookatme.contrib.qrcode).

~~~md
```qrcode
hello
```
~~~

```qrcode
hello
```

# Summary

> Markdown is intended to be as easy-to-read and easy-to-write as is feasible.
>
> Readability, however, is emphasized above all else. A Markdown-formatted
> document should be publishable as-is, as plain text, without looking like
> it’s been marked up with tags or formatting instructions.

[Mark Gruber, Markdown Co-Creator](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#philosophy)

In keeping with the original Markdown philosophy, here are these slides
rendered in Github: [slides](https://github.com/d0c-s4vage/lookatme/tree/master/presentations/san_diego_python_meetup/2019-12-20.md)

Not everything carries over, but it's still pretty readable.

# FIN

```qrcode-ex
columns:
  - data: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0
    caption: Questions?
```
